♪♪
And I've seen the promised land.
In the beginning. God created
the heaven and the earth.
For those to whom much
is given. much is required.
Thou shalt love thy
neighbor as thyself.
Seek. and ye shall find.
Ask. and it shall be given.
As the will of God is in
heaven. even so let it be.
God is our refuge and strength.
The most powerful
story of all time...
continues to shape our world.
It's the foundation
of our governments.
the blueprint for our laws.
a sacred guide
for life's journey.
This is the Bible.
God warned me. He
told me to build a boat.
God has spoken to me.
He will lead us to a new home.
He has promised descendants
as numerous as the stars.
- Who are you?
- My name is Moses.
God has sent me to set you free.
The Lord brought us out from
Egypt. promised us this land.
Soon it will be ours!
Jerusalem. Our new home.
David. you have forged
God's nation on Earth.
A nation and a
people find faith...
in an all-powerful Creator.
God is with me!
Their story helps
define who we are...
the choices we
make. how we live.
how we love.
how we struggle and overcome.
Who created the
earth. the sea. the sky?
Who created you?
Lord!
We give this city to the Lord!
Jericho is ours!
Whatever's left of
Jerusalem. help yourselves.
It's a trap for all of
us. They want us dead.
God is bringing
disaster from Babylon!
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
Lady. I believe your son is
the promised king of his people.
What is his name?
Jesus.
His name is Jesus.
You said there was trouble.
The people are flocking to this wild
man. John. They think he's a prophet.
Some even call him the messiah.
There is one to come
who will baptize with fire.
I am just a voice in the wilderness.
preparing the way for the...
Lord. what are we going to do?
Change the world.
Mary! He's here!
Who? Jesus!
He's back at last!
Blessed are the poor. for
theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are the meek. for
they shall inherit the earth.
What are you saying... that you are the
messiah. the chosen one sent by God?
It has begun.
Your hunger for righteousness.
it will be filled through me.
5.000 came to see him. 5.000.
Your king comes to
you riding on a donkey.
There is something
unusual about him.
There is nothing unusual about him
apart from his ability to cause havoc.
If the disturbances that took
place today are repeated.
I will crush any rebellion.
In the beginning.
God created the
heavens and the earth.
And God said.
"Let there be light!"
And there was light.
Then God separated
the water and the sky.
He formed the seas...
and the land.
Then he covered the land...
with trees...
and plants.
Then he filled the world...
with all the
creatures of the sea...
of the air...
and all the creatures
of the ground.
And then...
he made us...
to live in paradise.
until Adam and Eve
disobeyed God...
and ate the forbidden fruit.
And with one choice...
they learned both good...
and evil.
Since then. since
Cain killed Abel.
God has seen too much
evil in human hearts.
Wrong choices. Wrong decisions.
That's why this...
is happening.
Our Creator decided
to cleanse the earth.
God warned me. He
told me to build a boat.
A boat to save our
family and all the animals.
Every other living creature...
would die.
And on the seventh day.
God... rested.
After the flood waters
engulfed the world.
the Bible describes a new
beginning for Noah's descendants...
and a chance to
restore the relationship...
between God and humanity.
A new faith in an all-powerful
Creator is being born.
But before billions
can believe in him.
one man must hear God's voice...
and have the faith to follow.
Abraham. leave your home...
and go to the land I will
give to you and your offspring.
I will bless you.
I will make you a
father of many nations.
with descendants as
numerous as the stars.
All the peoples on earth...
will be blessed through you.
Wait for me!
Sarah. God has spoken to me.
Come with me.
Lot. my nephew. walk with us.
Abraham?
He will lead us to a new home.
But... we have a
home. a good home.
Away from the
city to a new land...
for our children.
But you have no children.
You can never have children.
But we will.
He has promised descendants
as numerous as the stars.
He spoke to me. He promised.
Sarah. believe me.
Believe me.
And. Lot.
you are with me?
He will lead us to
a land of wonder.
No.
Such wonder!
Driven by the belief that
he will father a great nation.
Abraham leads his small tribe to
the land promised to him by God.
What else can I do? All
the other land is taken.
No! You can't have mine!
Now! Now!
Stop! Come away!
This can't go on. You've got to
tell Abraham what we decided.
What's going on?
His men are trying
to take our pasture.
God gave us this land to share.
Then he should have
given us more of it.
Tell him.
Abraham. there just isn't enough
land. There are too many of us.
The Lord will
provide. Have faith.
In a god we cannot see?
It's time we go
our separate ways.
No. No. we must stay together.
Stay and starve?
Stay and watch our men kill
each other over a blade of grass?
Uncle.
we're leaving.
Very well.
Where do you want to go?
To the greener pastures
closer to Sodom.
Sodom?
Take care.
With no children of his own.
Abraham's nephew Lot is the
closest thing he has to a son.
How can I lead a people...
when I can't even
lead my own family?
Quickly! Help him!
It's one of Lot's
men! It's Lemuel.
Hurry! Somebody help him!
Here. Lean on me.
What happened? We
didn't stand a chance.
There were so many of them.
And Lot? Alive.
- But taken prisoner.
- Help him.
Here. Take my hand. Lean on me.
That's better.
Tend to him.
We have some trained men.
Abraham. you are not soldiers.
I told them to trust in God. I made
Lot come with us. And then they left us.
They had their pick of the land. It
was their choice. They are family.
We have to help them.
God will take care of us.
♪♪
What about this one. eh?
Leave her alone there!
Let her go!
Leave her alone!
Trust in God!
Are you all right?
Lot.
Oh. Lot.
So few of us against so many.
God is with us.
Abraham.
We're carrying on to Sodom.
Lot. we must stay together.
No.
No. Uncle.
We can't.
We have to carry on.
Let's go.
Abraham.
Come inside.
The stars.
Abraham? The stars.
All of them.
Count them. Abraham.
Count them. Count them.
Our Creator... Shh.
Who made the stars.
will give us as
many descendants...
Shh. shh. shh.
To populate our land.
He has promised.
You will have a child. I won't.
You will! I won't!
I can't.
It's too late for me.
For you. there's still a chance.
Her.
Hagar. the servant girl.
No.
No. no. no.
Yes.
Hold it steady. Ishmael.
Sarah. did you see that?
Did you see that? Oh. my boy!
My boy!
"My boy."
Your boy.
Go with your mother.
Abraham.
Welcome. Lord.
Please...
join me.
Bring water. Prepare
food for our visitors.
Yes. master.
Have you traveled far?
Yes.
A long way.
Abraham. where is your wife?
In there.
Next year. Sarah
will have a son.
Why do you laugh?
But I did not laugh. You did.
And when you have a son.
you will name him Isaac.
which means "laughter."
Thank you for your hospitality.
We must go.
Can I help you on your way?
Where are you going?
To decide the fate of Sodom.
♪♪
Get out of here!
Sodom has become corrupt.
a city of sin.
But my nephew Lot lives there.
He has a family.
The outcry against
Sodom is great.
Its sins are very grave.
You're going to destroy it.
The whole city?
You are a just God.
Will you destroy the good men...
- Inside.
- along with the evil ones?
Please! Help!
Help us!
Help!
What if there were 50
good people in Sodom?
Will they suffer the
same fate as the wicked?
Please help us!
We will test them.
If my angels find 50
righteous people in Sodom.
I will spare the whole city.
Please. Help us.
They went this way! Help us.
Or fewer. Thirty. Twenty.
You would not
destroy them. surely.
Please. There! Down there!
Help us!
Please. This way.
What if there were 10
righteous men in Sodom?
Would you not save them?
Lot. what are you doing?
Who are these people?
They need our help.
I'll do what I can for you.
Even if I find only 10.
I will save the whole city.
This way! Where can they be?
- Show yourselves!
- Show yourself!
Mother.
Shh!
What's that?
They're behind the
door! Over there!
- Open the door! Open the door!
- What do they want?
- Lot!
- Give us the strangers!
Bring them out!
They are guests in
my house. Let us pass!
Let them be! Or
we'll take you too!
Show yourselves!
Send them out!
Step aside.
- We must go.
- I can't see!
Come on!
For Abraham's sake.
the Lord is saving you.
Keep moving. That's it.
Wait.
There they are!
Let's go.
Have faith. Abraham.
You are safe now.
You must get away. The
city is being punished.
Keep moving. Come on!
Keep moving. Keep
moving. Come on.
Do not look back
at the city of sin!
Believe in God.
Do not look back!
Lot.
Come on!
Don't look back!
No!
Lot's wife is turned
into a pillar of salt...
for disobeying God.
Lot and his daughters
flee to the mountains.
never to see Abraham again.
How is she?
Oh. Oh.
Oh!
A boy.
Isaac.
As he promised.
♪♪
Ooh!
Your bread.
Eat your food. Ishmael.
Ishmael.
This way! Come on!
- I am!
- Hurry! Hurry!
Ah.
Oh. good.
Sarah?
What's the matter?
That woman thinks her boy is going to
inherit what rightfully belongs to Isaac.
What do you mean?
Who is to be the first of
all our tribe. Abraham...
The first star of all those
stars in the heavens?
Our son...
or hers?
Sarah. I... Abraham.
Abraham!
You decide!
Mama.
Or let God decide.
Be brave.
Assured by God
that they will survive.
Abraham sends Hagar and
Ishmael into the wilderness.
Good-bye. Ishmael.
Oh. my boy.
My boy.
When you grow up.
God will bless you
with many children.
Mmm.
Let me make you
some breakfast. Isaac.
After years of struggle.
Abraham has learned
that to be chosen by God...
is a blessing and a test.
He must prove his faith...
again and again.
A sacrifice.
No.
Have I not shown
you enough faith?
Isaac.
Eat up.
When you have children of your own.
you'll want them to grow up as big and...
Abraham?
What's the matter?
God wants a sacrifice.
My boy. come with me.
Hello.
Father. we have the firewood.
But where's the lamb?
The Lord will provide
a sacrifice. my son.
Did Abraham take a lamb?
No. mistress.
Bring the wood.
Father?
What are you doing?
You're hurting me. Father.
Isaac. we must trust in God.
No. Please.
No.
Please.
Please. Father.
Forgive me.
Please.
Abraham!
A sacrifice.
Oh. my boy. my boy. my boy.
No. No.
Isaac!
Mother!
Abraham has passed
the ultimate test.
He will become the
father of God's nation.
Now it's up to Isaac.
He will have a son called Jacob.
God will rename him Israel.
The promise of descendants
as numerous as the stars...
is coming true.
But famine forces the Israelites
far from the promised land...
to Egypt.
Here they are
enslaved by Pharaoh.
Abraham and God
become a distant memory.
all his people reduced
to beasts of burden.
except one.
Moses.
Next time on The Bible.
- You're not
going to fight again.
- I can't refuse.
He's Pharaoh's son.
Fight me! I order you!
Yaah!
- You're not one of us.
- What's he talking about?
You were born a slave.
- Your people
are out there. Moses.
- No! Aaah!
- The Israelites.
- Run!
Welcome to your new life. Moses!
You are nothing now!
You are the God of Abraham.
I will do it. I will
set my people free.
So much suffering.
Please!
- Who are you?
- My name is Moses.
Joshua.
God has sent me to set you free.
- Why are you here. Moses?
- Let my people go.
Freedom? They
are free to choose.
Slavery or death!
All my life I have been Pharaoh's.
I will never be a slave again.
Joshua. God is with us.
The Angel of Death is coming.
Go! And leave my land!
And take your
wretched God with you!
The Egyptians... they're here.
Lord!
Follow me!
Bring me Moses!
♪♪
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-